# +broadcast
This small package was written so that function authors can implement broadcasting semantics without the overhead associated with `cellfun()`. `cellfun()` negatively impacts performance more than for-loops in most instances and since `cellfun()` does not support broadcasting, it may additionally require that inputs be expanded. Duplication of elements to allow `cellfun()` calls to execute also act to impact performance. The functions act to produce index maps relating the operands to one another so that fast, simplified for-loops can be used in its place by adopting a few simple working patterns as "primitives".

For more in-depth discussion of these patterns, along with the explanation and reasoning behind most of the design decisions made in this package, see the `Examples` directory, as it exhaustively covers both.

To reduce the inconvenience of writing the boiler plate these primitive working patterns require, snippets have been created using the extension points in the new MATLAB desktop environment, the `extensions.json` defining them can be found in the `resources` directory. *NOTE: for tab completion of the snippets to work, the file must be on the MATLAB path; if the current hierarchy of the package is left unmodified, you will not be able to use the snippets; if you would like to use them you can move the `extensions.json` file out of the resources and onto you MATLAB path. This is known and intentional, their presences is meant to be optional, or inspire you to customize them to your likiing.*

In addition this package includes several permutation focused utilities that act to reduce the cognitive load required from a function author to track the permutations required to implement dimensional operations; note that when I say dimensional operations I am referring to a class of operations that act along one or more dimensions; I use it as a umbrella term for reductions, scan operations, cumulation operations, and operations that produce outputs that increase in length along the specified dimensions.

Ultimately all dimensional operations can be handled similarly, and when the permutation utilities are used, removing the contemplation of permutation book-keeping, doing so becomes trivial... and computationally inexpensive. Again the details are covered exhaustively in the example live script; at the end of the live script I have included local functions to give several examples of dimensional operations that can be implemented using the pattern. Implementing equivalent functionality without this pattern would be inconvenient to do robustly, and more expensive in all the testing I have done. 

Unlike the broadcasting utilities, these permutation utilities really act to juggle the cognitive overhead for those uncomfortable with permutations; this means that the primitive working pattern, discussed in the live script, can be used with or without them. Personally I have found the combination of the primitive permutation, and broadcasting, working patterns reduce most of the computational bridges I come to down to one of two or three processing patterns. While the permutation utilities are lighter weight, and thus easily replaced with a strong intuition about permutations, the broadcasting utilities are lifting far more weight and as such can not be removed without incurring a large debt of repeated boilerplate, even with an understanding of the logic. I find that the permutation utilities make/made nice "training-wheels" until I developed a more robust intuition for ND permutations, since the logic/consistency of permutations, can be deeply unintuitive initially (at least for me it was); conversely the broadcasting utilities will likely remain a staple of my codebase if/until more foundational changes are made to MATLAB to enable low-impact, syntactically-convenient broadcasting.
